DOCS-11486: Create tasks for three uses cases of metadata assistant (#246)
mulesoft/docs-studio: modules/ROOT/pages/propagate-metadata-studio.adoc

= Propagate Metadata to Other Flows

> Studio enables you to propagate your flow's metadata to your referenced flows within your application.

Reviewer: Is this the same? Just trying to limit the use of "you(r)" in the sentence...lol.
```suggestion
Studio enables you to propagate your flow's metadata to other flows referenced within your application.
```

Depending on the metadata configured in your referenced flow, you might need to configure the specific metadata to propagate.

> 

Reviewer: Yeah...in this sentence and the one before it, I wonder if the audience might get confused between "your flow" and "your referenced flow"? Maybe just look again at these sentences?

Reviewer: Looking below, I see you use "target": maybe "source flow" and "target flow"?
"Studio enables you to propagate metadata in your source flow to other, target flows referenced within your application. Depending on metadata already in the target flow, you might need to configure the specific metadata to propagate from the source flow."?

== Propagate Metadata to a Flow Without Custom Metadata

> When you add a Flow Reference component to reference another flow with no custom metadata configured, Studio automatically propagates the metadata in your flow as custom metadata in your target flow.

Reviewer 2: Should we put  `When you add a Flow Reference component and reference another flow` ....?

> When you add a Flow Reference component and reference another flow with no custom metadata configured, Studio automatically propagates the metadata in your flow as custom metadata in your target flow.

Reviewer: Is this correct?
```suggestion
When you add a Flow Reference component to your source flow and reference a target flow with no custom metadata configured, Studio automatically propagates the metadata in your source flow as custom metadata in your target flow.
```

Reviewer: So...what is the actual task that follows? "To <do what?>:"

. In the taskbar at the top of the Anypoint Studio display, select *File* > *New* > *Mule Project*.

> . Type a name for this project, and select *Finish*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Type a name for your new project and select *Finish*.
```

> . Drag two flow components to your empty canvas and name them `flow-1` and `flow-2` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag two flow components to your empty canvas and name them `flow-1` and `flow-2`:
```

+
image::both-flows-metadata.png[]

> . In `flow-1`, drag a Set Payload component and configure the payload as:

Reviewer: So, you are dragging the component to the flow, right? In that case:
```suggestion
. Drag a Set Payload component to `flow-1` and configure the payload:
```

+
[source,JSON,linenums]
--
{
  "value": {
    "ID": 1,
    "departureDate": "2016/12/20",
    "emptySeats": 200,
    "plane": {
      "type": "Boeing 747",
      "totalSeats": 400
    }
  }
}
--
+
image::set-payload-config.png[]

> . Drag a Logger component to `flow-2`, and configure it to log the `payload`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a Logger component to `flow-2` and configure it to log `payload`:
```

+
image::logger-payload-metadata.png[]

> . Drag a Flow Reference component to the end of `flow-1`, and configure it to reference _flow-2_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a Flow Reference component to the end of `flow-1` and configure it to reference _`flow-2`_:
```

+
image::flow-reference-metadata.png[]

> . Note that the metadata tab in `flow-2` is now populated with autogenerated metadata, and the input tab in the metadata explorer reflects the payload format that the Set Payload component determines in `flow-1`.

Reviewer: lowercase "explorer"?
```suggestion
. Note that the metadata tab in `flow-2` is now populated with autogenerated metadata, and the input tab in the metadata explorer reflects the payload format that the Set Payload component determines in `flow-1`:
```

+
image::logger-metadata-case-1.png[]

> == Propagate Metadata When Extracting an Operation From Your flow to a New Flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Propagate Metadata When Extracting an Operation From Your Flow to a New Flow
```

> When you extract an operation from your flow to a new flow or sub-flow, Studio enables you to configure the metadata that you want to propagate to the newly created flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you extract an operation from your source flow to propagate to a new target flow or subflow, Studio enables you to configure the metadata that you want to propagate to the newly created flow:
```

. In the taskbar at the top of the Anypoint Studio display, select *File* > *New* > *Mule Project*.

> . Type a name for this project, and select *Finish*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Type a name for your new project and select *Finish*.
```

. Drag a flow component to your empty canvas and name it `flow-1`.

> . Drag a Set Payload component and configure the payload as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a Set Payload component to `flow-1` and configure the payload:
```

+
[source,JSON,linenums]
--
{
  "value": {
    "ID": 1,
    "departureDate": "2016/12/20",
    "emptySeats": 200,
    "plane": {
      "type": "Boeing 747",
      "totalSeats": 400
    }
  }
}
--
+
image::set-payload-flow-1.png[]

> . Drag a Logger component to the end of `flow-1`, and configure it to log `#[payload.value.departureDate]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a Logger component to the end of `flow-1` and configure it to log `#[payload.value.departureDate]`:
```

+
image::logger-metadata-case-2.png[]

> . Right-click your Logger component and select *Extract To...* > *Flow*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Right-click your Logger component and select *Extract To...* > *Flow*:
```

+
image::extract-operation-metadata.png[]
. Name your target flow `flow-2`.
. Select *Metadata Preferences* to configure the input and output metadata. +
Note that Studio automatically recognizes the metadata of your flow.
+
image::extract-flow-metadata.png[]
. Select *OK*.

> . Your Logger component is now in `flow-2`, the metadata tab is populated with autogenerated metadata, and the input tab in the metadata explorer reflects the payload format that the Set Payload component configures in `flow-1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Your Logger component is now in `flow-2`, the metadata tab is populated with autogenerated metadata, and the input tab in the metadata explorer reflects the payload format that the Set Payload component configures in `flow-1`:
```

+
image::extract-flow-metadata-final.png[]

> == Propagate Metadata to a Flow With Custom Metadata Already Configured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Propagate Metadata to a Flow with Custom Metadata Already Configured
```

> When you add a Flow Reference component and reference another flow that has custom metadata already configured, Studio prompts you to select the metadata that you want to propagate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you add a Flow Reference component to your source flow and reference another, target flow that has custom metadata already configured, Studio prompts you to select the metadata that you want to propagate:
```

. In the taskbar at the top of the Anypoint Studio display, select *File* > *New* > *Mule Project*.

> . Type a name for this project, and select *Finish*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Type a name for your new project and select *Finish*.
```

> . Drag two flow components to your empty canvas and name them `flow-1` and `flow-2` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag two flow components to your empty canvas and name them `flow-1` and `flow-2`:
```

+
image::both-flows-metadata.png[]

> . In `flow-1`, drag a Set Payload component and configure the payload as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a Set Payload component to `flow-1` and configure the payload:
```

+
[source,JSON,linenums]
--
{
  "value": {
    "ID": 1,
    "departureDate": "2016/12/20",
    "emptySeats": 200,
    "plane": {
      "type": "Boeing 747",
      "totalSeats": 400
    }
  }
}
--
+
image::set-payload-config.png[]

> . Create a JSON file with the name _arrival-type-example.json_ in your `src/main/resources/examples` directory with the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a JSON file with the name _`arrival-type-example.json`_ in your `src/main/resources/examples` directory with the following format:
```

+
.arrival-type-example.json
[source,JSON,linenums]
--
{
  "value": {
    "ID": 1,
    "arrivalDate": "2016/12/20",
    "plane": {
      "type": "Boeing 747",
      "totalSeats": 400
    }
  }
}
--

> . Select `flow-2` in your canvas, select the *Metadata* tab, and *Add Metadata*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select `flow-2` > *Metadata* tab > *Add Metadata*:
```

+
image::add-metadata-flow-2.png[]

> . Select *Input: Payload*, and then select the *Edit*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Input: Payload* > *Edit*:
```

+
image::configure-input-metadata.png[]

> .  Select *Add*, create a new metadata type called _arrivalType_, and select *Create type*.

Reviewer: Is there a reason for the italics? Seems like a lot of emphasis.
```suggestion
.  Select *Add*, create a new metadata type called _`arrivalType`_, and select *Create type*:
```

+
image::create-metadata-type.png[]

> . Select the type *JSON* > *Example* and select the *...* button to browse to `src/main/resources/examples/arrival-type-example.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the type *JSON* > *Example* and select the *...* button to browse to `src/main/resources/examples/arrival-type-example.json`:
```

+
image::create-json-metadata-type.png[]
. Click *Select*.

> . Drag a Logger component to `flow-2`, and configure it to log the `payload`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a Logger component to `flow-2` and configure it to log `payload`:
```

+
image::logger-payload-metadata.png[]

> . Drag a Flow Reference component to the end of `flow-1`, and configure it to reference _flow-2_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a Flow Reference component to the end of `flow-1` and configure it to reference _`flow-2`_:
```

+
image::flow-reference-metadata.png[]

> . Select the Flow Reference component *Metadata* tab, and select *Set Metadata*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the Flow Reference component *Metadata* tab, and select *Set Metadata*:
```

+
image::set-metadata-example.png[]
+

> Studio warns you that setting the metadata from `flow-1` will overwrite the existing `arrivalType` metadata type configured for `flow-2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Studio warns you that setting the metadata from `flow-1` will overwrite the existing `arrivalType` metadata type configured for `flow-2`:
```

+
image::overwrite-metadata.png[]

> . Select *Customize* to configure the desired metadata to propagate to the flow:

Reviewer: Colon only if the end of its sentence leads directly to the image, without any text between.
```suggestion
. Select *Customize* to configure the desired metadata to propagate to the flow.
```

Reviewer: (You can avoid this by moving the second sentence to follow the image. See also Lines 76-79.)

+

> Note that Studio recognizes the actual metadata as the one set in `flow-1`, and the expected metadata as the one configured in `flow-2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that Studio recognizes the actual metadata as that set in `flow-1`, and the expected metadata as that configured in `flow-2`.
```
